Welcome to PROLITH. PROLITH is a program that allows you to simulate photolithography using projection tools; wafer steppers, typically.  It's primarily a model for photo resist chemistry. So it uses information from manufacturers or information that you input to simulate your results in the photoresist after exposure. It lets you change parameters like bake temperatures and time, develop time, and importantly, let you choose different photoresists so you can see what differences will occur. You can change thickness, of course. And you can change the patterns that you will try to expose in the resist. Very importantly, you can select attributes of the Exposure tool, the stepper. And I'll go through that, and I'll show you how to set up the model and use the program. There is some information that you can read. I won't put a link here because it will probably change several times so you can look for it the same way you found this. When you first open the program, it will usually default to the mask page. That's what this is. That's changeable, of course. This bar along the top is important to you. This is where all of the things you want to accomplish can be found. Over here are some basic settings that we'll go through. This part allows you to set up your resist, the Exposure tool, the mask, and the process parameters. On this side of the bar, this bar here, these are all outputs. And will show you the diffraction patterns, the exposure within the photoresist and the final resist profile. Very important is this. All of these things over here are outputs from simulation sets. So this is important because while you can simulate one exposure, what you typically want to do is explore the parameter space. Then you can setup tests where you will do, for example, a focus exposure matrix. And by doing it here first, you can save yourself a lot of time trying to do it on the tool. You can narrow down the area you want to work in very quickly. So we'll go through that. I'll show you how to do this. The first time that you open the program you need to setup the numerics. That's what this button over here is. And in here are a few things you have to change. By default, we usually come up with High NA scalar or Full Scalar. We don't want to use those. Our numerical aperture is not high enough. We want to use Vector Scaling. Now vector is the slowest, but it's the most precise. But it's moot anyway because the tools we have don't have high enough numerical aperture to make use of the other ones. So set it to vector. Also, you're going to use the normal PROLITH model. Lumped Parameter model is useful if you have a lot of things you want to try and you don't care about precision, you just want to run it faster to narrow down your, your space for example. Maybe you have a large model. But normally you're going to use normal operation. You can also input your own dissolution model, something you can find out about externally. You probably won't do that, but you can. And in manufacturing they of course do that. You can have multiple exposure passes. For example, you could do multiple focus depths, called Focus Drilling. Or you could do two different patterns, expose two different mask patterns, in the same resist and see what happens there. So there's a lot of room for you to work here if you want to try that. Also, typically we use a planar film stack. That means just flat. But you can actually include topography. And you can even include the way photoresist spins over that topography. And you can even add etching if you want. So you can get deeply into this if you want. Anything you want to find out can be found using the help screens. You can search through here and anything you want to know will be in here. This is in fact the only source for information apart from contacting KLA directly which we can do. And if you have questions that are not answered in here, we can ask them directly. The speed can be adjusted here; few other things. There's an SEM simulation that sometimes is useful to look at and can be remarkably accurate. Okay, so once you set this up, you can move on to setting up your actual test. This is your film stack. It's very important. Your substrate material, and anything you want to put on top. Over here you can add a coating process or additive deposit process. Although they tend to be more or less the same. These are related to that topography I talked about. I'm not going to use those. If you want to change or add a material, over here use the Load button. And now you've got all the materials that are currently in the database. And there are quite a few of them. There's silicon, you see silicon dioxide here. Interestingly, if you look down here at the spectrum for silicon dioxide and then compare it to that of quartz you'll see it's exactly the same. So I'm not sure why that's there. But a lot of other things are in here. But not everything is in here. Something that is also very useful is if, for example, you're going to put down some oxide, you can use the default values for the index. Or instead, you can add it as a parametric. And when you do that now you can input your own numbers for refractive index, and then you can save it. If you do save it, give it a new name so you'll know what it is. But this allows you to actually create your own materials. Very useful. So let's go back to silicon because that's all I want. Ok. Same is true with the other coatings that exist in here. So I'm going to set up our Deep UV process. We use a brewer ARC, but not this one. And if we look in the database, we do in fact have  DUV42P, which is what we want right there. And we typically use 62 nanometer thickness. Now the photoresist, you can't change the photoresist here. You actually have to go to the next icon and go to the photoresist library. Now this normally comes with about 70 different ones. I have over 200 because I've collected them over the years. You will note that there are Dow photoresists and there are DuPont photoresists. This actually goes back historically. Originally the company was Shipley, then it became Rohm and Haas, Then it became Dow. Now it's DuPont. Dow and DuPont are actually the same. You may find some duplicates in here. Don't be afraid. The Dupont one should be newer versions. You can actually, if you go through the help screen, you can create your own photoresists and add them to the database. You can search by name, by the way, you can search by wavelength, you can search by vendor. One of the interesting things I found is that although searching by wavelength, There's a couple of photoresist that don't show up in the right place. So I usually just go by name. That's up to you. Photoresist we're using is in fact Dow, excuse me, now DuPont UV 210. And I will add that. And you'll also see there are some comments available here which can be useful. You should look at them, tells you they characterized at these temperatures for post and pre bake, even the tool they exposed on. Alright, so let's go back over here and now I can set the thickness. It appears where I expect to see it. I'm going to set that to 500 nanometers, which is a typical thickness for us. If I update the little image here, not terribly useful, but may help you visualize if you have a stack. Also, you'll see here, this tells me how I'm measuring. I can measure in that direction or in that direction. So something you might want to change depending on the pattern you're exposing. You'll see that in a bit. Also adding or subtracting layers, as I said, you can add a layer. You can remove the layer. You can move the layer up and down. All useful. So now that we have a film stack determined we better look at what we're doing to it. So, here's the photoresist, and very important is the prebake temperature. And over here we'll have the post bake temperature and time. Now they'll come up with defaults that are in the model. They may not always be right, you better check them. The process that we typically do is 135 for 60 seconds for a pre-bake, and for the post bake we usually do 135 also. Again, these are changeable, for 90 seconds. Now one thing you'll notice is this just shows a nice straight line which is handy for calculation. However, if you want to load instead, something more realistic, this is what it actually looks like, and this may give you a more realistic look at what's happening in your process. That's up to you. For initial testing it's usually not an issue. But as you try to get more precise, you can come back and change this to whatever you'd like. The develop process, they usually don't even give you a choice of developers. Sometimes they do, but you can change the time. All right, so now we have a film stack and we have a process for the photoresist. Let's take a look at the exposure tool we're going to use. And here we have the source which is very important. The type of illumination, the objective lens, very important. Let's start off with the illumination that's really important. So the wavelength you're going to use. In this case, I've got 248, i-line would be 365, g-line 436. Another thing you can do to try to make your modelling more realistic; this is kind of a general curve for a laser output. Here's an actual output from a Cymer laser. And again, this will increase your calculation time, but it may give you more realistic results. Your objective lens. This is very important for the ASML. The default is 0.57 numerical aperture. We can go as high as 0.63. The reduction ratio doesn't have a big impact, but you should make sure it's correct. Note that you can also do immersion lithography; a few other things that you aren't going to get into. Anamorphic imaging. This is to simulate some of the upcoming High NA EUV stuff. You're not going to do that. Other things that can be done here, pupil-, you're not going to get into these, but if you want to get really technical, you can get into that. Here's an interesting part, aberrations, we won't add this, but these are actual recorded aberrations of lenses. Real cases. This one's very interesting. Typical 1990 stepper. This is pretty much what our Autostep would look like. This is what they used to sell. Of course, they did all these by hand back in those days. These are some real world cases. These are much, much better lenses of course, but still aberrations, and when you're printing nanometers it's important. Okay, so we've got our wavelength, we've got our lens determined, the source shape. The illumination people don't think about, but it's very important. And we can view this a couple of ways. We can look at the shape of it as opposed to just a top-down view. Partially coherent illumination is what is normally used. Default for the ASML is 0.75. I'm going to set it to 0.8 just because that's the maximum. But the ASML also has built in Annular Illumination. That means we can remove the 0 order and just work with the side orders. This can do a few things: it can increase your depth of focus, it can enhance resolution of certain features, it can also ruin resolution of other features. Something that's worth modeling. This is very interesting. If you do use this on the ASML, very important, the width of this ring can be no less than 0.3. So something to pay attention to. Typically partially coherent is where we're going to go. And again, I'm going to use 0.8. But something worth examining. OK. So now we have our source wavelength and objective lens characterization. We've got our film stack, got our process. The last thing to do is a photomask. What are we going to print? There are a lot of things available in here for you to choose from. 1D means you're only measuring one-dimension,  the width. There are also two-dimensional masks. That means you're going to measure two dimensions and that means that the output will be three-dimensional. This is very useful for characterizing certain kinds of imaging and processes in photoresist. It does take a lot longer to do the calculations. So this will slow you down, but can give you very, very useful outputs. For now, we'll stick to the one D just to show you what's happening. I'm going to do a space as opposed to a line, just to demonstrate that. Let's make a feature width of 250 nanometers. And the pitch is important. So this will be a one-to-one. If you want to make an isolated feature, then you should set the pitch equal to at least 10 times the size of the feature. So in this case, this would be 2500 nanometer pitch to make an isolated feature. Also down here you can, if you're doing multiple passes, you can offset them one to another. You can also do the background. You can do phase shifting with this program. Rotate it 90 degrees. Other things you can add in here are how you actually make this thing. You can actually do optical proximity correction. I'm not going to show you that. That takes quite awhile to calculate, but it can be useful. Also if you do calculate some OPC, you can export it and actually use it, although you probably can't afford the mask that you would have to get. All right, so now I have everything set up. I'm going to go here to the exposure focus page. Now. This is already set up from some previous stuff. Do not change the calibration, do not change mask focus. That's for a scanner. The only thing you're going to play with is wafer focus. First make sure that the position is offset relative to the top of the resist because that's how the tools we have are going to measure. Positive numbers should move up. All of the tools we have move the focus value up with positive numbers. And just because I'm familiar with it, I'm going to set this to -0.2. That's typically the focus value we use on the ASML stepper, and in fact, what this program calculates to be the optimum. So it agrees pretty well with real world stuff. All right. Now, calculate dose to size. This is going to take a shot at what's the best dose based on all of these parameters and this focus that you put in here, which may not be the best. Just going to start with an initial dose that you can change and use some other criteria you can change as well. When I hit Calculate, it's going to come up with what it thinks is the best dose. I can use that. So now it's done a calculation. One thing I should have done first, and I'm going to check it now because I didn't, is over here when you set the feature width, you have to change it in the metrology. Why? Because the program often does not change it automatically. Sometimes it does, but I find most of the time it does not. So you have to make sure that this value agrees with what you want, and also that the type of image agrees. Alright, so we did a calculation. Let's look at what happened. Here's a diffraction pattern, the different orders of light. You don't care much about that probably. This is important. This gives you a good idea of what the contrast is. This is the aerial image, the intensity at different parts of the mask. This is the light intensity in the photoresist. Notice, even with anti reflective coating, I've got standing waves appearing. This is after baking; that smooths it out quite a bit. These are the develop contours over time. And what you really care about is the final product. So this is what we end up with this as we've got 249.5 nanometers, a sidewall angle of 86 degrees, that's not bad, probably won't improve an awful lot. I can swap back and forth with this other graph just for a good look at what's going on here. So that's okay. But that only tells me one thing. If I want to really determine what's the best process for this, I took a guess at everything over here. We need to go to the simulation sets. So in the simulation sets there are a lot of pre-configured tests. You can also make up your own. But let's first go to the focus exposure matrix. Focus exposure matrix is something you spend a lot of time doing. If you do it here first, you'll spend a lot less time doing it in the real-world because you'll already know approximately what the right values are. So this has chosen a range of exposures, which is probably okay, the step size is too big. I'm going to go in steps of one. I'll make it actually a half. And then the focus, I know that the depth of focus on this tool is not huge. There's no reason to go any further than -1. And +0.8, probably not even that far. And the steps I'll go in are going to be 0.1. Again, very limited depth of focus on this tool. I come down here and launch it and you'll see that it runs a lot faster than it does in the real world. So now I go to the results. And this is totally useless. Why is this useless? Well, for one thing, I've got too many inputs. I need a graph with more lines. That looks better, but that's still not very useful. You want to put the focus on the x-axis. And now we have something that looks familiar. This is a Bossung plot. The first thing I can tell is the best focus is going to be in here someplace. And surprisingly, it's right around -0.2. Now if I want to zoom in, if I use the Shift key and the left mouse button, I can zoom in. And here's a couple of things that are interesting to note. The best focus is going to be around here somewhere. My feature size target is 250, and you'll see that there is some pretty straight lines there. That's good. Notice the straightest lines are up here. The straightest lines are called the Isofocal lines. That means that you can print this line through much greater focus range and still always get the same feature size. So in a perfect world, you would design your masks so that your feature size was right on this line. And that usually means you don't put the final feature size on the mask. You bias the mask somewhat so that based on your system, you will get the most latitude in your process. So that's something this can be very useful for as well. If I want to reset the graph I type R. R will reset. Now if you look at the analysis, it's going to show you what it picks as the best focus and shows you what your latitude is in focus and dose. You may pick a different point; that's up to you. It bases this on a 10 percent exposure latitude. And you can select different values if you want, either more exposure latitude or less. And as exposure latitude changes, so does the depth of focus available. So at the typical 10%, our best focus is -0.17. Our best dose is 21.29. Our exposure latitude is two millijoules. That's quite a bit. Okay, So this is good. It didn't include sidewall angle. If I include the sidewall angle now I have a little bit less latitude. Not a whole lot, but a little bit. So if we go back to results, Here's something else. We're looking at the feature size. We can look at it in terms of error, which really just changes the numbers on the scale. Placement errors. Sidewall angle is important. So if I look at the sidewall angle, you see it tops out right here. But you'll also see that sometimes, not in this particular case, sometimes you can maximize your sidewall angle through focus. It may change from the best focus in terms of feature size yield. So that's something you can play with. Sometimes you can vary the focus to optimize your sidewall angle at the expense of some latitude in your process. Here's something else. that's fun, the resist profile. Each one of these, if you double-click it, you get a look at what's the result in that particular spot. Sometimes that's a quick way to look through and see what you really want to try to print. Now. Other things that are very useful. Swing curve. Swing curve E sub 0 is typically what you want to run. Now, in the case of anti reflective coating, just for fun, let's take the anti reflective coating out. And let's run just changing the resist. I'm not going to go too far. Let's do 400 to 700. And we'll go in steps of 5 just to see. So I'm going to launch that. This does not go real fast. We can actually watch it happen. So if we use no anti reflective coating on a bare silicon wafer, as we go through different thicknesses of photoresist, the dose required to expose it and develop it changes dramatically. And we'll get the number here in just a second. Okay. So you'll see we've got lots of peaks and valleys. The danger in a case like this is if you select this location, and you should always select a peak as your thickness target, and then the next day for some reason your thickness changes slightly and you're over here, you won't know what happened. Possibly worse is to select a thickness that's somewhere on the slope, because very small variations in thickness are going to make dramatic differences in your results. If we look at the analysis, we see we have a 54% change peak to valley. We don't want that. So if we go back and we add in our anti reflective coating, 42P at 62 na-, oops, at 62 nanometers, and do that again, just run the same thing, you're going to see quite a bit different result, which is why we use anti reflective coating. Now I'm showing you this just to demonstrate A: why we use anti reflective coating, and B: that it's worth taking the time to figure this out. We also have anti reflective coating for the i-line stepper; worth using. Now, what you should be aware of is that on different film stacks, the optimum thickness for anti reflective coating can change. So running this test just on the anti reflective coating can often be useful. What you would really do, you see here now we have 0 change, this is ideal, you would set this up with two parameters. So we would also include the thickness of the anti reflective coating. And when we do that, I'll do a real short one here just to show you, 450 to, we'll go 550, and we'll do 30, let's do 35 to, let's do 45 to 75 in steps of 5. So if we run this, this is going to take a little longer, but by doing this, and on silicon it won't matter, but if you do this on an oxide, for example, you'll see that the best thickness for the reflective coating can be much different than it is on a bare silicon wafer. And depending on your film stack and the thickness of each layer in your film stack, there may be a different optimum. Now you'll notice that I have more inputs here now. So, like we had in the focus exposure matrix, I have two inputs and one output, I have to have at least a three line graph. A two line graph won't do it. But there are also other ways to visualize and I just want to demonstrate that here. One of the reasons I'm showing this. And while we're at it, your outputs are variable for whatever test you decide to run. And you'll have a selection down here of special outputs and normal outputs. Again, depending what it is you're trying to accomplish. So there's a lot of space here to work in; a lot of parameter space. And now we're looking at the output from the swing curve, but we're only looking at one value. Interesting that we're seeing variation. That's because the anti reflective coating is not optimized. We can look at different thicknesses and, once this completes, we can do that. As I said, it's going to take a few minutes run. And again, you've got plenty of other inputs so you can create any test you want using any input. The problem is you may end up with a lot of outputs. So with multiple outputs, while you may not be able to view it easily in the program, you can export the entire data file and use it in MATLAB or in Excel or something else. So you'll be able to export that database that it will create in a couple of different forms and then manipulate it externally. Another thing that's very useful is once you have graphic output, like we'll have over here, you can actually drag and drop this into another program. And it's even possible to do that and keep all the data behind it. So again, the help file is very, very useful. And I strongly recommend that you explore that. You can also contact me. And I can help you try to set up some of these things. I think the greatest danger in using this program is you can create so much data you don't know what to do with it. So, certainly in the beginning, just do simple things. And it's very useful for most of the things it can do quickly. But if you want to setup a long run, and these can take hours to run, you can do that. Just talk to us first so we can lock out a computer. There are some available in the clean room, but most likely one of the units in the CAD room would be better for that. And as soon as this finishes, we'll take a look at it. Okay, so we are seeing just one of these values. If we go to the multi-line graph, we can see now a little more accurately what's going on, and each different thickness of anti reflective coating gives us a different result. And this is why you want to explore this. Now, this is only on bare silicon. If you do this instead on an oxide layer, and, just for fun, try it on different thickness oxide layers, you will probably find a different optimum thickness. And if you have a complex stack, it's definitely worth doing. Now again, the reason to do this is to get the flattest line possible so you have the least amount of change in your dose value with thickness variation of resist. OK, so now it's done. Well, this is fairly unreadable. If we went back to this graph, you can pick whichever one you want to look at. Now we didn't hit 62 here, which is the optimum. So there is 65; here, we'll go to the analysis page. If I go to 65, I've got 2.7% ratio. If I go to 60, I've got 2.75. And as I showed you at 62, we have 0. So this is the space worth exploring. Again, the multi-line graph can be useful, but these other outputs, there's a contour, this may be easier for you to read. One of the things you would see is that right across here, remarkably very close to 62 nanometers, is where you have the least change. Another way to look at is a 3D plot. In very similarly, you see that out here It's pretty lumpy, but right across here, it's flat. So depending on how you look at this, you can figure out what the right answer is. So that thing I just clicked on by accident, this is the metrology results, may or may not be useful to you. There's a lot of data here. Alright. So the simulations sets are where you're going to do most of the work. If you have some ideas and you need help, feel free to contact me. But there's an awful lot of useful applications here. There's a lot you can learn before you actually go in and start coating any photoresist. So by exploring your space here, you can narrow down the area you're going to work in. You can also learn some things about how difficult your process will be or how best to optimize your process before you even start it. Okay, so previously I showed you the Bossung plot. Let me explain what this is. The Bossung plot has focus on the x-axis. It has feature size on the y-axis. And each line represents a different exposure dose. So what you see is, since this is a space we're exposing, that as your dose is lower, your features are smaller. And as the dose is higher, your features are bigger. Another important thing to note here is that as the exposures get higher, the lines get closer together. So higher exposure means less change in feature size. This is why it's better to be overexposed than underexposed. In other words, if you under size your mask and then have to drive the dose higher you'll have better control. You see here this Isofocal line I was talking about is a larger line than we specified. So if we made the mask smaller and drive the dose higher to get the feature we want, we will have more depth of focus. That's what this shows you. So when you read a Bossung plot, sometimes called a smiley plot, it's focus along the bottom so you can find your depth of focus or your best focus, feature size along the y-axis, and each line is a different dose. Now trying to read this can be difficult. That's why the analysis page is good. So now that we have this, and we want to keep this, before we make any changes we want to save the program. So we'll save it. I had named this demo, I'll name this demo2. And I'll save it. And now what happens is if I go in here and make any changes, make any changes to what I did, I will lose all the data I had before. So you want to save it before you make changes to the program. Another thing you will need to do, once you've established how you're going to run things, is set your user preferences. This tells it where your database is. Don't change this. By default, it will put a copy of this in your Documents. And if you're using the Managed Windows system, whenever you login, it should be there because it will follow you. And this is what you want to change: your default template. So you can create a template. So you - not only can you save your file as data, you can also save it as a template. So by saving it as a template file, you can then, in preferences, point to that file so that whenever you start the program, that will be loaded. So all of those things that you've set up, that particular tool, that particular film stack and things like that, that will always be your starting point when you open this program. So something that's worth doing. Otherwise you start from scratch every time. So now I'm going to show how to do three-dimensional output. If we use a 2D input, we will get a three-dimensional output. It does take longer to do the calculation. So these are lines I'm going to leave lines. So I'm going to expose around this area. This obviously would be the opposite. I expose the bars and leave the others, but I'm going to do it this way just to demonstrate. So I will load that mask. I now have to set my feature sizes; as it turns out, that's fine. I'm going to leave that. I am going to check here and make sure it followed here. It did. You'll also notice, and this is worth looking at. It's going to measure this way and it's going to measure this way. Unfortunately, we don't want that measurement. That will do us no good. We don't want this measurement. So we're going to turn it off. The other thing to know is you can change the size of the area that it calculates. You can change where it calculates. I can move this line if I want to; drag it around. I can also move this line if I want. So you can set the actual locations that you will measure, whatever is important to you. In this case, I'm simply going to turn off that measurement because it won't do me any good. And my sizes are right. And I'm going to be measuring a line, not a space. I want to measure the lines. Interesting. So now if we go back here, I could do a calculate dose to size. That's going to take a little time. I'm going to jump right ahead to the output. When I do that you'll see it takes quite a bit longer to do the calculation. But the difference is I now get a three-dimensional output. Now this doesn't look very promising. If we change graphs, you'll see that's what I do care about. Feature sizes. My sizes are too big. My angle is okay. But what's important here is you can move this. If you hold the Shift key, hold down the Shift key and then use the left mouse button. Now you can move this around and rotate it to whatever angle you like. This is very useful. It's also a lot of fun. So, depending what you're trying to do, you may need to do it in three dimensions. In fact, most things are better in three-dimensions, but they do take longer. And now I will save this as yet another file so that I don't lose all this data. So speaking of data, I can export the data in a couple of different ways. I can also save this data. There's quite a bit of it. And as I mentioned, if you look in here you can export, you can export things in a lot of different ways. And there is a functionality to drag and drop images into other programs. So I did mentioned that there is the capability to drag and drop things. To demonstrate I have an image here. Maybe I want to put it into a Word document. I just put it into a Word document. It's that's simple. And that's true with many of the images in this, in this program. And again, if you want to export data like this, put it into Excel, you can do that. Then you can drag the image over, have that in there too. So it's actually designed specifically to use to create documentation. It's one of the really useful things about this program. In the simulation set, another handy functionality is this stoplight button up here. What does it mean? It's going to show me progress. The other thing it shows you is everything you've done before and the data that it still has. So anytime you call this up, you can run one of these other things. If we call up something existing, all of our data is still there. This is why you want to save a program before you start changing other parameters, because all that data will still be there and you can go back and look at whatever you want. It's still going to be there. And that can be very useful later on. You want to go back and refer to something you ran before. You open the saved file and look in here and you'll be able to call it up. Okay. Feel free to contact me directly and good luck. 